# In this SQL, I'm querying a database with multiple tables to gather statistics of a variety of things like Customers, Employees, Invoices and Sales numbers.

1.Show Customers (their full names, customer ID, and country) who are not in the US.

select customerid, firstname, lastname, country
from chinook.customers
where country <> 'USA';

2.Show only the Customers from Brazil.

select customerid, firstname, lastname, country
from chinook.customers
where country = 'Brazil';

3.Find the Invoices of customers who are from Brazil. The resulting table should show the customer's full name, Invoice ID, Date of the invoice, and billing country.

select c.customerid, c.firstname, c.lastname, i.invoiceid, i.invoicedate, i.billingcountry
from chinook.customers as c
left join chinook.invoices as i
on c.customerid = i.customerid
where c.country = 'Brazil';

4.Show the Employees who are Sales Agents.

select firstname, lastname, title
from chinook.employees
where title = 'Sales Support Agent';

5.Find a unique/distinct list of billing countries from the Invoice table.

SELECT DISTINCT billingcountry
FROM chinook.invoices;

6.Provide a query that shows the invoices associated with each sales agent. The resulting table should include the Sales Agent's full name.

SELECT e.firstname, e.lastname AS 'Sales Agent Name', i.invoiceid
FROM chinook.invoices AS i
INNER JOIN chinook.customers AS c ON i.customerid = c.customerid
INNER JOIN chinook.employees AS e ON c.supportrepid = e.employeeid
ORDER BY 'Sales Agent Name' ;

7.How many Invoices were there in 2009?

select count(*) as 'Number of invoices in 2009'
from chinook.invoices
where invoicedate between '2009-01-01' and '2009-12-31' ;

8.Show the total sales made by each sales agent.

SELECT  e.firstname, e.lastname AS "Sales Agent Name",
   Round(SUM(i.total), 2) AS "Total Sales"
FROM chinook.invoices AS i
INNER JOIN chinook.customers AS c ON i.customerid = c.customerid
INNER JOIN chinook.employees AS e ON c.supportrepid = e.employeeid
GROUP BY "Sales Agent Name";
